4.0 blog post (#258)
transloadit/uppy.io: blog/2024-07-10-uppy-4.0.md

From now on you’ll be in safe hands when working with Uppy, whether it’s setting
the right options, building plugins, or listening to events.

```ts
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';

const uppy = new Uppy();

// Event name autocompletion and inferred argument types
uppy.on('file-added', (file) => {
	console.log(file);
});
```

One important thing to note are the new generics on `@uppy/core`.

<!-- eslint-disable @typescript-eslint/no-non-null-assertion -->

```ts
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';
// xhr-upload is for uploading to your own backend.
import XHRUpload from '@uppy/xhr-upload';

// Your own metadata on files
type Meta = { myCustomMetadata: string };
// The response from your server
type Body = { someThingMyBackendReturns: string };

const uppy = new Uppy<Meta, Body>().use(XHRUpload, {
	endpoint: '/upload',
});

const id = uppy.addFile({
	name: 'example.jpg',
	data: new Blob(),
	meta: { myCustomMetadata: 'foo' },
});

// This is now typed
const { myCustomMetadata } = uppy.getFile(id).meta;

await uppy.upload();

// This is strictly typed too
const { someThingMyBackendReturns } = uppy.getFile(id).response.body!;
```

Happy inferring!

## Merging the two AWS S3 plugins

> We used to two separate plugins for uploading to S3 (and S3-compatible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We used to have two separate plugins for uploading to S3 (and S3-compatible
```

services): `@uppy/aws-s3` and `@uppy/aws-s3-multpart`. They have different use
cases. The advantages of multipart uploads are:

- Improved throughput – You can upload parts in parallel to improve throughput.
- Quick recovery from any network issues – Smaller part size minimizes the
  impact of restarting a failed upload due to a network error.
- Pause and resume object uploads – You can upload object parts over time. After
  you initiate a multipart upload, there is no expiry; you must explicitly
  complete or stop the multipart upload.
- Begin an upload before you know the final object size – You can upload an
  object as you are creating it.

However, the downside is request overhead, as it needs to do creation, signing,
and completion requests besides the upload requests. For example, if you are
uploading files that are only a couple kilobytes with a 100ms roundtrip latency,
you are spending 400ms on overhead and only a few milliseconds on uploading.

> This really adds up if you upload a lot of small files.

Reviewer: nit: I wonder if we'd want to present the info in a table that shows (one column for advantages, one column for disadvantages)

Author: I think it's fine like this. We're also only mentioning one downside so it would be a very uneven table

```ts
import { useState } from 'react';
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';
import { useUppyState } from '@uppy/react';

// IMPORTANT: passing an initializer function
// to prevent Uppy from being recreated on every render.
const [uppy] = useState(() => new Uppy());

const files = useUppyState(uppy, (state) => state.files);
const totalProgress = useUppyState(uppy, (state) => state.totalProgress);
// We can also get specific plugin state.
// Note that the value on `plugins` depends on the `id` of the plugin.
const metaFields = useUppyState(
	uppy,
	(state) => state.plugins?.Dashboard?.metaFields,
);
```

You can see all the values you can access on the
[`State`](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/blob/dab8082a4e67c3e7f109eacfbd6c3185f117dc60/packages/%40uppy/core/src/Uppy.ts#L156)
type. If you are accessing plugin state, you would have to look at the types of
the plugin.

```ts
import type { State } from '@uppy/core';
```

### `useUppyEvent(uppy, event, callback)`

Listen to Uppy [events](/docs/uppy/#events) in a React component.

The hook returns `[results, clear]`. `results` is an array of values from the
event. Depending on the event, that can be empty or have up to three values.

> `clear` is a function to clear the state.

Reviewer: nit: I don't find the phrasing "clear the state" very clear
```suggestion
`clear` is a function that, when called, clears the `results` array.
```

> Values remain in state until the next event (if that ever comes). Depending on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Values remain in state until the next event (if that ever comes) – or if the state is manually cleared. Depending on
```

import Transloadit from '@uppy/transloadit';
import { useUppyEvent } from '@uppy/react';

// IMPORTANT: passing an initializer function
// to prevent Uppy from being recreated on every render.
const [uppy] = useState(() => new Uppy());

const [results, clearResults] = useUppyEvent(uppy, 'transloadit:result');
const [stepName, result, assembly] = results; // strongly typed

useUppyEvent(uppy, 'cancel-all', () => {
	// Handle event here.
});
```

## Google Photos

A long requested feature is finally here: Google Photos support!

:::info

Uppy can bring in files from the cloud with [Companion](/docs/companion/).

Companion is a hosted, standalone, or middleware server to take away the
complexity of authentication and the cost of downloading files from remote
sources, such as Instagram, Google Drive, and others.

This means a 5GB video isn’t eating into your users’ data plans and you don’t
have to worry about OAuth.

:::

<video src="/img/blog/4.0/google-photos.mp4" controls></video>

[`@uppy/google-photos`](/docs/google-photos/) is a new plugin so you can use it
next to your existing [`@uppy/google-drive`](/docs/google-drive/) plugin.

## UX improvements for viewing remote files

> When using [Dashboard](/docs/dashboard) with any of our remote sources ( Google

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using [Dashboard](/docs/dashboard) with any of our remote sources (Google
```

> Drive, Facebook, etc.) you use our internal `@uppy/provider-views` plugin to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Drive, Facebook, etc.), you use our internal `@uppy/provider-views` plugin to
```

  will end up in `file.user_meta` for you to dynamically access in your template
  _per file_.

You can read more about Assembly Variables in the
[docs](https://transloadit.com/docs/topics/assembly-variables/).

## Companion

### Streaming uploads by default

Streaming uploads are now the default in in Companion. This comes with greatly
improved upload speeds and allows uploading up to hundreds of gigabytes without
needing a large server storage. We found that this improves speeds by about 37%
for a Google Drive upload of a 1 GB file
([source](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/4046#issuecomment-1235697937)).
This feature was also available before but we wanted to have more real world
usage before setting it as the default.

With streaming upload disabled, the whole file will be downloaded first. The
upload will then start when the download has completely finished.

When streaming upload is enabled, Companion will start downloading the file from
the provider (such as Google Drive), while at the same time starting the upload
to the destination (such as Tus), and sending every chunk of data consecutively.

For more information, see the [Companion docs](/docs/companion/).

> ### New required option `corsOrigins`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `corsOrigins` option is now required
```

As a security measure, we now require the
[`corsOrigins`](/docs/companion/#corsorigins) option to be set.

It serves two purposes, it sets the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header and it

> sets the origin for `window.postMessage()`, which is needed to communicate the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sets the target origin for `window.postMessage()`, which is needed to communicate the
```

---
title:
  'New Uppy 4.0 major: TypeScript rewrite, Google Photos, React hooks, and much
  more.'
date: 2024-07-10
authors: [aduh95, evgenia, mifi, murderlon]
image: /img/blog/4.0/preview.jpg
slug: 'uppy-4.0'
published: true
toc_max_heading_level: 2
---

<img src="/img/blog/4.0/preview.jpg" alt="Screenshot of Uppy Dashboad with text outlining the major new features in 4.0" />

Hold on to your leashes, folks! Uppy 4.0 is here, and it’s more exciting than a
tennis ball at the dog park! Our beloved Uppy mascot, the adorable coding
canine, has been hard at work fetching all the latest updates for you.

From a full TypeScript makeover to shiny new React hooks, and even Google Photos
integration, this release is packed with treats that will make developers wag

> their tails in delight. So, sit, stay, and let’s dig into what makes Uppy 4.0

Reviewer 2: Lmao this is all so confusing, who's a dog!
First we're saying that Uppy is a tennis ball at the dog park.
Then we're saying that Uppy is a dog.
Then we're saying that developers are dogs who wag their tails.

I'm pro this vibe, but I think we could be more focused on who is a dog in this scenario.

Reviewer 2: I think the idea was that Uppy is a dog whose name is Uppy

Reviewer 3: Agreed. The way I pretty much saw it when I helped conceive this idea is:

- Uppy, and to a certain extent the developers / blog writers behind it, can be attributed doglike qualities
- users of Uppy / readers of the blogs can be depicted as dog owners

I slightly changed up the intro in my PR. Couldn't help myself from adding a dumb pun. (In my mind, 'without further a-dog' = no more dog jokes, for now).

uploading files that are only a couple kilobytes with a 100ms roundtrip latency,
you are spending 400ms on overhead and only a few milliseconds on uploading.
This really adds up if you upload a lot of small files.

AWS, and generally the internet from what we found, tend to agree that **you
don’t want to use multipart uploads for files under 100MB**. But this sometimes
puts users of our libraries in an awkward position, as their end users may not
only upload very large files, or only small files. In this case a portion of
their users get a subpar experience.

---

We’ve merged the two plugins into `@uppy/aws-s3` with a new
[`shouldUseMultipart`](/docs/aws-s3/#shouldusemultipartfile) option! By default
it switches to multipart uploads if the file is larger than 100MB. You can pass
a `boolean` or a function to determine it per file.

## React hooks

People working with React are more likely to create their own user interface on
top of Uppy than those working with “vanilla” setups. Working with our pre-build
UI components is a plug-and-play experience, but building on top of Uppy’s state
with React primitives has been tedious.

> To address this we’re introducing to new hooks: `useUppyState` and

Reviewer 2: Typo: `to` => `two`

> To address this we’re introducing to new hooks: `useUppyState` and

Reviewer 3: Fixed in my PR

`useUppyEvent`. Thanks to the TypeScript rewrite, we can now do powerful
inference in hooks as well.

### `useUppyState(uppy, selector)`

> Use this hook when you need to access Uppy’s state reactively.

Reviewer 3: Changed this in my PR

```ts
import { useState } from 'react';
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';
import { useUppyState } from '@uppy/react';

// IMPORTANT: passing an initializer function
// to prevent Uppy from being recreated on every render.
const [uppy] = useState(() => new Uppy());

const files = useUppyState(uppy, (state) => state.files);
const totalProgress = useUppyState(uppy, (state) => state.totalProgress);
// We can also get specific plugin state.
// Note that the value on `plugins` depends on the `id` of the plugin.
const metaFields = useUppyState(
	uppy,
	(state) => state.plugins?.Dashboard?.metaFields,
);
```

You can see all the values you can access on the
[`State`](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/blob/dab8082a4e67c3e7f109eacfbd6c3185f117dc60/packages/%40uppy/core/src/Uppy.ts#L156)

> type. If you are accessing plugin state, you would have to look at the types of

Reviewer 3: Changed the text to your suggestion in my PR. 

I did not remove any code, since I feel it is better that I never do that.

Listen to Uppy [events](/docs/uppy/#events) in a React component.

The hook returns `[results, clear]`. `results` is an array of values from the
event. Depending on the event, that can be empty or have up to three values.
`clear` is a function to clear the `results` array.

Values remain in state until the next event (if that ever comes) or if the state
is manually cleared. Depending on your use case, you may want to keep the values
in state or clear the state after something else happened.

```ts
import { useState } from 'react';
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';
import Transloadit from '@uppy/transloadit';
import { useUppyEvent } from '@uppy/react';

// IMPORTANT: passing an initializer function
// to prevent Uppy from being recreated on every render.
const [uppy] = useState(() => new Uppy());

const [results, clearResults] = useUppyEvent(uppy, 'transloadit:result');
const [stepName, result, assembly] = results; // strongly typed

useUppyEvent(uppy, 'cancel-all', () => {
	// Handle event here.
});
```

## Google Photos

A long requested feature is finally here: Google Photos support!

:::info

Uppy can bring in files from the cloud with [Companion](/docs/companion/).

> Companion is a hosted, standalone, or middleware server to take away the

Reviewer 3: Fixed in my PR

complexity of authentication and the cost of downloading files from remote
sources, such as Instagram, Google Drive, and others.

This means a 5GB video isn’t eating into your users’ data plans and you don’t
have to worry about OAuth.

:::

<video src="/img/blog/4.0/google-photos.mp4" controls></video>

[`@uppy/google-photos`](/docs/google-photos/) is a new plugin so you can use it

> next to your existing [`@uppy/google-drive`](/docs/google-drive/) plugin.

Reviewer 3: Made this change in my PR, with a slight alteration.

## UX improvements for viewing remote files

When using [Dashboard](/docs/dashboard) with any of our remote sources (Google
Drive, Facebook, etc.) you use our internal `@uppy/provider-views` plugin to

> navigate and select files. In Uppy 4.0, we are making a handful of quality of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
navigate the folders and select files. In Uppy 4.0, we are making a handful of quality of
```

Reviewer 3: Made this change in my PR

      <td style="width: 50%;"><video src="/img/blog/4.0/cache-new.mp4" controls></video></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td colspan="2">
        <b style="font-size: 17px;">Restrictions</b>
        <p style="margin-bottom: 0;">
          Uppy supports file <a href="/docs/uppy/#restrictions">restrictions</a>, such as maximum number of files and maximum file size. In 4.0, we reworked our restrictions UI - users will get immediate feedback upon exceeding the number of selected files, and users get a chance to reenter the correct number of files after their first upload attempt.
        </p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th style="padding-top: 0; padding-bottom: 0;">PREVIOUSLY</th>
      <th style="padding-top: 0; padding-bottom: 0;">NOW</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td style="width: 50%;"><video src="/img/blog/4.0/restrictions-old.mp4" controls></video></td>
      <td style="width: 50%;"><video src="/img/blog/4.0/restrictions-new.mp4" controls></video></td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

We’re confident this turns our interface for remote sources into the most
advanced one out there. We’ve seen some competing libraries not even aggregating

> results beyond the first page API limit of providers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
results beyond the first page returned by the provider API.
```

Reviewer 3: Nice! This part of the sentence was not making sense to me, but I scratched it up to me simply being ignorant about terminology.

Made this change in my PR

## Revamped options for `@uppy/xhr-upload`

> Before the plugin had the options `getResponseData`, `getResponseError`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In previous versions, the `@uppy/xhr-upload` plugin had the options `getResponseData`, `getResponseError`,
```

Reviewer 3: Made this change in my PR

`validateStatus` and `responseUrlFieldName`. These were inflexible and too
specific. Now we have hooks similar to `@uppy/tus`:

- `onBeforeRequest` to manipulate the request before it is sent.
- `shouldRetry` to determine if a request should be retried. By default 3
  retries with exponential backoff. After three attempts it will throw an error,
  regardless of whether you returned `true`.

> - `onAfterResponse` called after a successful response but before Uppy resolves

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `onAfterResponse` called after a successful response, but before Uppy resolves
```

Reviewer 3: Fixed in my PR

  the upload.

You could for instance use them to refresh your auth token when it expires:

```js
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';
import XHR from '@uppy/xhr-upload';

let token = null;

async function getAuthToken() {
	const res = await fetch('/auth/token');
	const json = await res.json();
	return json.token;
}

new Uppy().use(XHR, {
	endpoint: '<your-endpoint>',
	// Called again for every retry too.
	async onBeforeRequest(xhr) {
		if (!token) {
			token = await getAuthToken();
		}
		xhr.setRequestHeader('Authorization', `Bearer ${token}`);
	},
	async onAfterResponse(xhr) {
		if (xhr.status === 401) {
			token = await getAuthToken();
		}
	},
});
```

> Checkout the `@uppy/xhr-upload` [docs](/docs/xhr-upload/) for more info.

Reviewer 3: Fixed in my PR

can be a security risk**. Signature Authentication is a security measure that
can prevent outsiders from tampering with your Assembly Instructions.

This means the majority of implementers will write something like this, as
recommended:

```ts
import Uppy from '@uppy/core';
import Transloadit, { type AssemblyOptions } from '@uppy/transloadit';

new Uppy().use(Transloadit, {
	async assemblyOptions(file) {
		const response = await fetch('/transloadit-params');
		return response.json() as AssemblyOptions;
	},
});
```

But now you are making a request to your backend for _every file_, while the
response likely remains the same, unless you are setting dynamic `fields` per
file.

**This has now been improved to**:

- only call `assemblyOptions()` once.
- `fields` is for global variables in your
  [template](https://transloadit.com/docs/topics/templates/).
- all metadata on your files is automatically sent along to Transloadit. This
  will end up in `file.user_meta` for you to dynamically access in your template
  _per file_.

You can read more about Assembly Variables in the
[docs](https://transloadit.com/docs/topics/assembly-variables/).

## Companion

### Streaming uploads by default

> Streaming uploads are now the default in in Companion. This comes with greatly

Reviewer 3: Fixed in my PR

needing a large server storage. We found that this improves speeds by about 37%
for a Google Drive upload of a 1 GB file
([source](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/4046#issuecomment-1235697937)).
This feature was also available before but we wanted to have more real world
usage before setting it as the default.

With streaming upload disabled, the whole file will be downloaded first. The
upload will then start when the download has completely finished.

When streaming upload is enabled, Companion will start downloading the file from
the provider (such as Google Drive), while at the same time starting the upload
to the destination (such as Tus), and sending every chunk of data consecutively.

For more information, see the [Companion docs](/docs/companion/).

### `corsOrigins` option is now required

As a security measure, we now require the
[`corsOrigins`](/docs/companion/#corsorigins) option to be set.

It serves two purposes, it sets the `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` header and it
sets the target origin for `window.postMessage()`, which is needed to
communicate the OAuth token from the new tab you used to log-in to a provider
back to Companion.

> 

Reviewer 3: Just noticed that a few of your comments were initially hidden, so I missed them during my iteration.

I made a sort-of similar change to this sentence in my PR, only getting rid of the 2x 'it sets'.

I am not clear on the final part of the sentence either and, to be honest, your version doesn't completely make sense to me either. I left a comment in my PR, so I'll leave this for someone else to clear up.

## And more

The 4.0 release contained over 170 contributions, many too small to mention, but
together resulting in Uppy continuing to grow and improve. We closely listen to

> the community and are always looking for ways to improve the experience.

Reviewer 3: Made this change in my PR
